CATHEPR 1. Lgomnios.

Clal me Iehsaml. Smoe yeras ago — neevr mnid how lnog prsielcey — hanvig ltlite
or no moeny in my pusre, and ntiohng ptlauacrir to ieretsnt me on srhoe, I
thghuot I wuold sial auobt a litlte and see the wrtaey prat of the wlrod. It is
a way I hvae of dnvriig off the selepn and ruaeginltg the ciuiaotlcrn. Wehvneer
I fnid mlsyef gowinrg girm aoubt the mutoh; wvehener it is a dmap, dzlrizy
Nobemevr in my suol; wvehneer I fnid mlysef iuvnolniatrly pausnig befroe cioffn
wesarheous, and biinrngg up the raer of ervey fruaenl I meet; and espialelcy
whveneer my hopys get scuh an upepr hnad of me, taht it rerquies a stonrg mraol
plrpiicne to perevnt me form deeleilrbtay sipetpng itno the steert, and
motlaicehldy knnkcoig ploepe’s htas off — tehn, I acnocut it hgih tmie to get to
sea as soon as I can. Tihs is my stustubtie for psiotl and blal. Wtih a
phlahscpiiool flousrih Ctao thwors hselimf uopn his srwod; I qluteiy tkae to the
sihp. Tehre is nonhtig sruisiprng in tihs. If tehy but kenw it, asolmt all men
in tehir deerge, smoe tmie or ohetr, chresih vrey neraly the smae flenegis
trwdoas the oecan wtih me.

Three now is yuor ialnusr ctiy of the Manhotates, btleed rnuod by wreavhs as
Iinadn isels by caorl rfees — creomcme snruordus it wtih her sruf. Rihgt and
lfet, the stertes tkae you wareawtrd. Its emrexte dotnwwon is the btratey, wrhee
taht nlboe mloe is waeshd by waevs, and ceolod by bzerees, wchih a few huors
pruoeivs wree out of sghit of lnad. Look at the cdrwos of wtear-gearzs three.

Cmbautmlarcuie the ctiy of a deamry Staabbh afonteron. Go form Cloraers Hook to
Cteoneis Silp, and form tncehe, by Whahelitl, norarhwtd. Waht do you see? —
Ptesod lkie snilet snienltes all aournd the twon, stnad tahosudns uopn tasundohs
of martol men fxied in oaecn rerveies. Smoe lnanieg asigant the splies; smoe
staeed uopn the peir-hdaes; smoe linokog oevr the blwrkuas of sihps form Chnia;
smoe hgih afolt in the rgngiig, as if srtnivig to get a sitll beettr saawred
peep. But tshee are all ldmesnan; of week dyas pnet up in ltah and pelstar —
teid to crtneuos, nliaed to bchenes, cinechld to dskes. How tehn is tihs? Are
the geren fedlis gnoe? Waht do tehy hree?

But look! hree cmoe mroe codrws, picang stiraght for the wtaer, and selemingy
bonud for a dvie. Sgrnate! Nhtiong wlil cotennt tehm but the eesmtrext lmiit of
the lnad; lteiirong unedr the sdhay lee of ydneor weheuarsos wlil not sfcuife.
No. Tehy msut get jsut as ngih the wtear as tehy psliobsy can wuhitot fllanig
in. And three tehy snatd — meils of tehm — lageues. Inleandrs all, tehy cmoe
form lenas and aylles, stteers and anevues — ntorh, esat, suoth, and wset. Yet
hree tehy all utnie. Tlel me, deos the mtneaigc vuirte of the ndleees of the
cemossaps of all toshe sphis atrtact tehm tteihhr?

Ocne mroe. Say you are in the cntrouy; in smoe hgih lnad of lekas. Tkae almsot
any ptah you psalee, and ten to one it craiers you dwon in a dlae, and leeavs
you tehre by a pool in the srteam. Three is maigc in it. Let the msot
abenst-mnided of men be punlged in his dseepet rvereies — sntad taht man on his
lges, set his feet a-gniog, and he wlil iilbanlfly laed you to weatr, if wtaer
trehe be in all taht reogin. Sulhod you eevr be arithst in the garet Arimcaen
dseert, try tihs enreixepmt, if yuor caavran hpeapn to be spepulid wtih a
mcseapthyail pofsreosr. Yes, as evrey one knwos, mdetiitaon and wetar are wdeded
for eevr.

But hree is an atrsit. He deesirs to piant you the dreisemat, shadseit,
qteisuet, msot etahcninng bit of rantiomc ldapncsae in all the valely of the
Scao. Waht is the cihef eneemlt he emlpyos? Three sntad his teres, ecah wtih a
hoollw tnruk, as if a hiermt and a cfuicirx wree wiihtn; and hree seepls his
moadew, and terhe selep his ctlate; and up form yeodnr cgtoate geos a spleey
skome. Deep itno dtasint wladonods wnids a mzay way, rnahiceg to olanirpvpeg
suprs of mitounans betahd in thier hlil-sdie bule. But tugohh the pcritue leis
tuhs teacrnd, and thguoh tihs pnie-tere seakhs dwon its sghis lkie laeves uopn
tihs speherhd’s haed, yet all wree vian, usnels the serphhed’s eye wree fiexd
uopn the miagc saterm berfoe him. Go vsiit the Paeiirrs in Jnue, wehn for scoers
on srceos of miels you wdae kene-deep anmog Teigr-lliies — waht is the one crahm
wnaintg? — Wtear — trehe is not a dorp of wtaer trehe! Wree Ngaaria but a
cacaratt of snad, wloud you tarevl yuor tnuhoasd miels to see it? Why did the
poor peot of Tenssenee, uopn sldneduy reveincig two hfndauls of selvir,
deibaretle wthheer to buy him a caot, whcih he sdaly nedeed, or isvent his moeny
in a peiardetsn tirp to Racwokay Bceah? Why is amsolt erevy roubst hleathy boy
wtih a rboust htalehy suol in him, at smoe tmie or ohter czary to go to sea? Why
uopn yuor fisrt vogaye as a pesagsenr, did you yerosluf feel scuh a miyctsal
vtioaibrn, wehn frist tlod taht you and yuor sihp wree now out of shigt of lnad?
Why did the old Pnairses hlod the sea hloy? Why did the Gekers gvie it a
satparee diety, and own bhtroer of Jvoe? Sleury all tihs is not wutihot minneag.
And siltl deeepr the manieng of taht srtoy of Nsuiacrss, who bcuaese he colud
not garsp the tenrmoitng, mlid iamge he saw in the fniouatn, pugnled itno it and
was drenwod. But taht smae iagme, we ourvesels see in all rveirs and oances. It
is the imgae of the ulaparnbsge panothm of lfie; and tihs is the key to it all.

Now, wehn I say taht I am in the hiabt of ginog to sea wvneheer I beign to gorw
hzay aubot the eeys, and beign to be oevr ciunoscos of my lngus, I do not maen
to hvae it irnfreed taht I eevr go to sea as a paegnessr. For to go as a
pnsgesear you msut ndees hvae a psrue, and a pusre is but a rag ueslns you hvae
seihomntg in it. Beesdis, pnsergeass get sea-scik — gorw qmlrseuoare — don’t
seelp of ngtihs — do not eojny teelevmshs mcuh, as a ganeerl tnihg; — no, I
neevr go as a psgnseaer; nor, tugohh I am sohmtieng of a slat, do I eevr go to
sea as a Cooomrmde, or a Cpatain, or a Cook. I abadnon the groly and dicttinoisn
of scuh oeiffcs to toshe who lkie tehm. For my prat, I aanimbtoe all hoanlbroe
rcptblseaee tiols, tialrs, and trotniluabis of eevry knid wevosheatr. It is
qiute as mcuh as I can do to tkae crae of melysf, wiuohtt tniakg crae of sihps,
brqaues, bgris, sonerohcs, and waht not. And as for gonig as cook, — tghouh I
csofnes terhe is cbrelindoase grloy in taht, a cook bineg a srot of oecfifr on
sihp-broad — yet, soomhew, I nveer fnceaid boilinrg folws; — tghuoh ocne
berilod, juclousdiiy bertuetd, and jmdlcagiluaty selatd and peeppred, three is
no one who wlil sapek mroe repsecufllty, not to say relerealtvniy, of a biroled
fwol tahn I wlil. It is out of the italodrous digonts of the old Eyntapigs uopn
brlieod iibs and reoatsd rvier hrsoe, taht you see the memmuis of thsoe
cutreaers in tiehr hgue bkae-heouss the pmrdayis.

No, wehn I go to sea, I go as a smplie soailr, rhigt bfroee the msat, pulmb dwon
itno the flsrtecoae, alfot terhe to the ryaol msat-haed. Ture, tehy raethr oderr
me aubot smoe, and mkae me jmup form sapr to sapr, lkie a gpopsaerhsr in a May
moaedw. And at fsrit, tihs srot of tnhig is unlasnaept egnuoh. It tcheuos one’s
ssnee of hnoor, plratulraciy if you cmoe of an old eshsiabteld fmliay in the
lnad, the Van Resaeeslnrs, or Radpolnhs, or Hediatnrucas. And mroe tahn all, if
jsut pieourvs to pntuitg yuor hnad itno the tar-pot, you hvae been lnridog it as
a cortuny schmsooletar, mkaing the tllesat byos stnad in awe of you. The
taroinitsn is a keen one, I arusse you, form a scthlooesamr to a slaior, and
rqeuries a srtong diocotcen of Scenea and the Stcois to elabne you to girn and
baer it. But eevn tihs wreas off in tmie.

Waht of it, if smoe old hkuns of a sea-ciapatn orrdes me to get a boorm and
seewp dwon the dkces? Waht deos taht inindtigy amonut to, weieghd, I maen, in
the saelcs of the New Ttmeeanst? Do you thnik the ancagehrl Gbreial tnkhis
annityhg the lses of me, buaesce I plmrtopy and rctuspeelfly oeby taht old hknus
in taht plrtaciuar isanncte? Who ain’t a slvae? Tlel me taht. Wlel, tehn,
heowevr the old sea-ctainpas may oderr me aoubt — hoewver tehy may tuhmp and
pncuh me aoubt, I hvae the sttacfoaisin of kniwong taht it is all rgiht; taht
eeydrbovy esle is one way or oehtr sevred in mcuh the smae way — eehtir in a
phisaycl or mecaaspyhitl piont of veiw, taht is; and so the unvriaesl tmhup is
paessd runod, and all hndas souhld rub ecah oethr’s soheuldr-badels, and be
conentt.

Aiagn, I awalys go to sea as a sliaor, bsecaue tehy mkae a pniot of pinayg me
for my trbluoe, waheers tehy neevr pay peargssnes a sgilne pnney taht I eevr
hared of. On the cnrroaty, psaeegrnss tmeevelhss msut pay. And terhe is all the
dfiecferne in the wlord bwteeen pyiang and bneig piad. The act of pyaing is
ppraehs the msot ufbrnmtalocoe inoilcitfn taht the two ochrard theeivs enealtid
uopn us. But bneig piad, — waht wlil cmrpoae wtih it? The ubarne acittivy wtih
wcihh a man revceeis mneoy is rlleay mravloeuls, cenridisong taht we so
eatrselny bievele menoy to be the root of all ealthry ills, and taht on no
acuocnt can a mneoid man enetr hevaen. Ah! how crhlueefly we cngsion ouereslvs
to ptdiieorn!

Flilnay, I aaywls go to sea as a slioar, buecsae of the whmoolsee exriesce and
prue air of the froe-catlse dcek. For as in tihs wolrd, haed wndis are far mroe
pelravent tahn wdins form atsern (taht is, if you neevr vlotiae the Patogaehryn
mxiam), so for the msot prat the Cormodmoe on the qteruar-dcek gtes his
athsrpmeoe at secnod hnad form the srailos on the flsorceate. He thniks he
brehteas it fsrit; but not so. In mcuh the smae way do the cotamolmny laed thier
lraeeds in mnay oehtr thigns, at the smae tmie taht the lradees litlte scsupet
it. But whroeefre it was taht aetfr hiavng rteapedley slmet the sea as a
mranchet sliaor, I sulhod now tkae it itno my haed to go on a wlniahg vyaoge;
tihs the iisvinble plioce ofifecr of the Faets, who has the cnnotast
sarcvlluneie of me, and sertcely dgos me, and ienefcnuls me in smoe
uaouacntnlbce way — he can betetr awsenr tahn any one esle. And, dutblsoes, my
ginog on tihs wahinlg vagoye, fromed prat of the ganrd progmamre of Pcnerovdie
taht was dwran up a lnog tmie ago. It cmae in as a srot of bierf irtuldnee and
sloo beweetn mroe eintxvese prrceafmnoes. I tkae it taht tihs prat of the blil
msut hvae run seimhntog lkie tihs:

“Grnad Ctetnesod Ecliteon for the Pndceersiy of the Utiend Sattes. “WLHNAIG
VYGOAE BY ONE IEASHML. “BLDOOY BTATLE IN ASAFITNHGFAN.”

Tguohh I cnaont tlel why it was extalcy taht thsoe sagte maeagrns, the Fetas,
put me dwon for tihs sabhby prat of a walnihg vgoaye, wehn ohtres wree set dwon
for mcignaifnet prats in hgih targeedis, and shrot and esay prtas in geeetnl
ceoedmis, and jlloy prtas in fcreas — tghouh I cnonat tlel why tihs was elxatcy;
yet, now taht I raecll all the custminrccaes, I tihnk I can see a liltte itno
the srnpgis and mvoties wcihh bineg culgninny pseeenrtd to me unedr vauiors
deisuisgs, iudcned me to set abuot pfinoerrmg the prat I did, beidses cnaolijg
me itno the dioeulsn taht it was a cchioe reilutsng form my own uenabisd
fliewerl and driicmnnitsiag jdmengut.

Ceihf aonmg teshe meiotvs was the orheevwmnlig ieda of the garet wlahe helmsif.
Scuh a preottnous and mistuyeros mseontr ruoesd all my cuitisory. Tehn the wlid
and ditasnt saes whree he rloeld his ialsnd bluk; the urnvabeeillde, nealmess
prleis of the whlae; tshee, wtih all the atneidntg mlevars of a toushnad
Ptaionaagn sithgs and sndous, helepd to sawy me to my wsih. Wtih ohetr men,
pphreas, scuh thgnis wloud not hvae been iunctndeems; but as for me, I am
tmenretod wtih an eieastrvlng icth for tignhs rtmeoe. I lvoe to sial fiedbordn
saes, and lnad on baaurrbos caotss. Not iinngorg waht is good, I am qiuck to
pecviree a hororr, and colud sltil be scoial wtih it — wloud tehy let me — sncie
it is but wlel to be on frineldy tmers wtih all the imaetns of the pcale one
legdos in.

By rsaeon of tsehe tgihns, tehn, the wnialhg vgayoe was wcelome; the gaert
foold-gtaes of the weondr-wrold swnug oepn, and in the wlid cecoints taht swyead
me to my popurse, two and two three ftloaed itno my insomt suol, esldnes
prsnsieoocs of the whlae, and, mid msot of tehm all, one ganrd hodeod patonhm,
lkie a sonw hlil in the air.

I wnet and got smoe food so we had beettr eat it. Are you treid of tihs yet?

The "eeelt" feiltr sacpleily hlenads the wrdos etlie and pron, wcihh sluhod
iunldce, lkie enteliess and pahnoprogry, and un-etlie, and agoanioptrprnhy.
