?H?P?_P ?. _?omings.

Call mc Isrmael. Scre years ago — ?ev?r rinc how lon? precis?|y — ?avirg litt|e
or ?o morey i? my purs?, a?| ncthing particu?ar t? i?tcrest re cn s?ore, |
thought I ??uld sail about a little anc see thc vatcr? part of tne world. It is
a wav | hav? of drivirc off tne sp??en arc regulatin? t?e circu|atio?. W??never
I find nvself crowing grim a??ut the n?uth; whencver it is a damp, crizz?y
\ovenber in m? s?u|? ?h?ncvcr I firc mvse|f irvolu?tari?y pausirg ?efore c?ffi?
varehouscs, ard brirgirc up thc r?ar of cver? funcral I meet, an| ?specia|l?
whercv?r mv ??pos get such an upper ha?d of re, t?at it requir?s a stron? ncra|
pri?ciplc to prcvent ne fror delibcrate|y steppinc i?to th? str?ct, and
rethodica?ly kn?cki?g peoplc’s nats cff — then, I account it ?icn time tc get to
sca as scon as ? can. T?is is my su?stitute fcr pisto| a?d |al?. Vitn a
phi|osop?ical f??uris? (ato t?rows himsclf up?n his swcr|? I quiet|? take to the
s?ip. There is rot?inc surprisirg in this. If t?ey |ut k?ew it, a?m?st a?l nen
in th?ir |egrce, sone timc cr otner, c??risn verv near?? t?e same feelings
tcwards t?e ocean with ne.

Tn?re now is vcur insular city ?f th? ?annattocs, |e?ted round |? ?harves as
|ndian isl?s |y coral reefs — commerce surrour|s it with ?er surf. Ri?ht and
?eft, the strc?ts take you watcrward. |ts cxtreme downtcwn is the battery, wh?rc
tnat n?ble nole is washcd by vaves, a?d ccc|?d by bre?zes, wnich a fcv h?urs
previous ?er? out cf sight cf land. Look at th? crowds ?f ?ater-gazers there.

Circumambu|ate the city of a |rearv Sabbat? afterrocn. Go fr?m Ccr?ears Ho?? t?
Co?rti?s Slip, ard fr?m thence, b? /hit?ha?l, ncrth?ar|. What co y?u sce? —
??sted lik? sil??t s?ntircls al? arounc t?? tow?, stand tnousa?cs upcn thousa?ds
of m?rtal r?n fix?d i? ocean reveries. Some lea?i?g acainst th? spil?s, s?mc
seat?d upcr t?c pi?r-h?acs? some ?o?|irc over the bul?ar?s of ships fro? Crina?
scme ?ich a|oft i? the ri?ging, as if strivinc t? ?ct a still ?ett?r seawar|
peep. [ut tnesc are all lardsmen, ?f vee| |ays pcrt up in |at? and p?aster —
tied t? counters, ?ail?d t? ?crc?es, clinchc| tc cesks. |ow t??n is this? ^re
the greer fi?lcs g??c? /hat do t?e? herc?

?ut |ook! ?er? co?e more cr?vds, pacir? straig?t for tne wat?r, an| seering|y
|ou?| f?r a dive. Stra?g?! ?ctring wi?l cc?tent t?em but tn? extrer?st ?init ?f
tnc land; lciteri?? under the shady lec cf y?nd?r ?aren?uses ?il? not sufficc.
\o. |?cy rust get iust as rig? the water as t?e? p?ssi?ly can vithout fa|ling
i?. And t?ere thcy stard — mi?es cf ther — leagues. Ir|ancers all, they come
frcm lanes anc al|?vs, str??ts anc averucs — ncrt?, east, scut?, and west. Yet
hcre the? al? u?ite. |cll me, do?s the magrctic virtue ?f the n?e|?es of th?
compasses ?f all tros? s?ips attract tncr tnith?r?

Once m?re. Sav you are in thc c?untr?, ir some hi?h lanc of |akes. Ta?e almost
a?y pat? you pleas?, and te? to ore it carries ?ou do?n i? a da?c, an| |eaves
vcu t?ere b? a po?? in th? str?ar. |here is magic i? it. Let the nost
absent-mindcd cf m?n be p|ur?ed ir his c?cpest reveries — stan| that man ?n his
?egs, s?t his feet a-goin?, and ?c vi|l infa|li|ly leac you t? ?ater, if ?ater
t?ere bc i? all that regior. Shcu?d ?cu ever |e athirst in th? ?r?at ^mericar
|es?rt, try this ?xperir?nt, if ycur carava? ?appen tc ?c supplie| ?it? a
m?taph?sica? professor. Y?s, as ev?rv orc kncvs, meditation ard ?atcr are wedded
fcr ever.

Put her? is a? artist. -c dcsires to paint y?u the |reamicst, snadiest,
quictest, mcst enc?arting bit of romantic landscape i? al| t?? vallcv of th?
Sacc. \nat is the chief elerent h? e?p|oys? ?here sta?d his trces, ?ac? with a
hollow trunk, as if a ?ermit anc a crucifix were withir, and here sleeps nis
reado?, a?| there s?eep ?is cattlc; an| up fron voncer cottagc goes a s|eepy
sroke. )eep irto distart woo|lan|s wincs a mazy vay, rcachin? to over|apping
spurs of rou?tains bathed ir th?ir ri?l-si|? blu?. [ut though the picture li?s
thus tranced, anc thoucn tris pinc-tr?e srakes ccwr its si??s likc lcaves upo?
this shepherc’s ncac, yct all ?erc vain, un|ess t?e shepherd’s e?? vere fixe|
upon the magic strcar ??for? ?im. Go visit tne Prairics in Ju??, vhen f?r sccres
?? sccres cf ri|cs v?u wad? |?e?-d?ep among Tiger-li?ies — what is t?e c?c charm
va?ti?c? — Water — ther? is rot a dr?p of water th?rc! Verc \iagara but a
cataract ?f sand, would ?ou travel your t??usand ni?es tc see it? Vhy |i| t?e
poor poet ?f Tcnnessce, up?n su|d?nly receivin? t?o ?a?|fuls ?f si?vcr,
deli|erate wreth?r t? buy nir a ccat, vhich h? sad?y needed, or i?vest his n?ney
i? a p?cestrian trip to Foc?a?ay [eacn? Wh? is almcst everv ro|ust r?althv |oy
vith a ro?ust hea|th? soul in him, at s?me time ?r other crazy to go tc sca? \hv
upo? your first vo?ace as a passcn?er, di| you vcurs?lf f?c? suc? a ?ystical
vibraticn, wncn first tcld that you anc vour ship w?rc nov out of signt of |a?c?
/hy dic t?e ?lc Pcrsiars hc?d tne sea ?cly? Whv did t?e Grecks ?ivc it a
s?parat? deity, ard own brcthcr of Jove? Sur?|? a?l this is not without n?a?ing.
Anc stil? decp?r tre meaning of that st?ry cf \arcissus, ?hc b?cause ?e could
not ?rasp th? tormerti?g, milc imag? he sav in the f?urtain, p?unc?c into it an|
was |r??nc|. [ut that sare irage, ve curs??ves sce in a|l rivcrs anc ?ccans. It
is the iragc of the uncraspa??e phantom cf lifc, ard this is tnc kcy t? it a?l.

?ov, vh?r I say t?at I an in thc habit of coirg tc s?a w?enever ? begin t? ?row
?azy ab?ut thc c?cs, a?c bc?i? tc bc over c??scious ?f my |ur?s, ? |o not mean
t? ?avc it irferred t?at I ?vcr ?o tc sea as a pass?ngcr. For to go as a
passcngcr ycu must nc?ds rav? a pursc, ar| a pursc is but a ra? unless you ravc
s?ret?ing in it. [esic?s, passc?g?rs get s?a-sick — grcw cuarre?some — d?n’t
s?eep of nig?ts — d? not erjov themse?v?s ruch, as a gcnera| t?ing; — ??, I
never gc as a passenger? n?r, th?u?n I ar sorethirg of a salt, |c I cv?r go tc
sea as a Ccmmodore, or a Captai?, or a Coo?. I aba?con t?e gl?rv ard distincticn
of sucn offices t? tnose ??? ?ike ther. For ny part, | ab?ninate all nonorab|c
resp?ctab|c toils, tria?s, anc tri?ulatio?s of every ?ind ?hats?cver. It is
?uitc as much as I can do to ta|e care of mys?lf, wit?out ta|ing car? of s?ips,
?arqu?s, brigs, schocners, an| ??at not. A?d as f?r c?in? as c??k, — th?ucr I
conf?ss th?re is considcra|l? gl?ry in t?at, a cook beirg a sort of officcr on
ship-b?ard — yet, somer?w, I ncv?r fancied broi?ing f?vls; — tncuch once
broiled, iudici?us|? ?uttered, an| jud?ratica?lv salted a?| peppcr?|, thcre is
nc one wro will spca? more resp?ctful|y, ?ot to say revcre?tia?|v, of a |roilcd
fc?? tha? I wi?l. It is out of th? ido?atrous dotings of the o|d |gyptians upor
brcil?| ibis and roasted riv?r rorsc, that ?ou se? trc murries cf t?os?
creatures ir t?eir huge bake-hcuses the p?ramids.

\c, ?nc? I ?o to sea, I gc as a sirp?c sail?r, ri?nt bef?rc th? nast, plu?b d?vr
into the f?recastle, aloft tnerc to the rova| nast-head. True, they rather order
me about scm?, and make me jurp frcm spar to spar, ?ike a crasshopper ir a ?av
meadow. Ard at first, tnis sort ?f tning is unp??asart enough. It touches cne’s
serse of honcr, particularl? if vou cc?e of an o|| ?stab?ishe| fami?? ir the
la?d, the /an R?nssclacrs, cr Ranco?prs, or |arcicanut?s. ?nd more t?ar all, if
iust previous to putting y?ur nan| intc the tar-pot, ?ou hav? |?cn ?ordin? it as
a cou?try schoo?master, ra?ing tnc ta?|est ?cys stard in awe cf you. The
transitio? is a keen one, ? assure you, fror a sch?c?rast?r t? a sail?r, arc
recuires a strorc cecocti?n of Seneca anc the Stcics to ?nable you to gri? and
?car it. [ut even tnis vears cff in tine.

W?at cf it, if scme o?d hu?|s cf a sea-captai? orders mc to ?ct a broom ar|
sweep |o?n the decks? Vnat cc?s that indig?ity a?ount t?, ?cigh?d, I mean, in
th? sca|es of t?e \ev Tcstane?t? |o ?ou t?ir| th? archa?gel Ga|ric| thi?ks
a?ythinc the l?ss of re, b?caus? ? prcnptly a?c respcctfullv o|ey t?at c|| hunks
in t?at particular i?starce? \ho ain’t a s?ave? Tell r? t?at. /e|l, th?r,
hcwever t?? o?| sea-captai?s may or|cr nc about — no?evcr t?ey rav thump arc
punch re about, | havc t?e satisfacti?r cf kno?i?? that it is all right; that
everybody elsc is cne ?ay cr ?t?er served ir ruch t?c sane ?ay — either in a
physical cr m?taphvsica? pcint cf view, that is; ard s? t?e universal thump is
passe| r?unc, ard a|l na?ds shoulc ru| cach other’s shoul|er-b?ad?s, and be
c?ntent.

Again, I alvays ?o to sea as a sail?r, ?ecaus? they ma|e a p?irt of payirg me
for my trou|lc, w?creas thcv rever pa? passen?crs a si?g|? p?nn? that ? ever
reard of. Or thc contrarv, passeng?rs t?ems?|ves rust pav. And thcrc is al? the
|iffer?rce in t?e wor|d ?etwc?r paying and bci?g paic. Th? act of paying is
perhaps the mcst uncomfortab|e irflictio? that thc two orchard thieves ertailc|
upo? us. but being paic, — w?at wi?l comparc with it? ??e urba?e activit? ?ith
whic? a man r?ceives ron?y is rca|ly rarvel??us, ccnsiderinc t?at we sc
carrest?y be?ieve m??cy to be the ro?t cf all cart?lv i|ls, and that on nc
acccunt can a mcni?d ran enter neave?. Ah! ??w ch??rfu??y wc consic? ?urs?lves
tc percitio?!

Fi?a?|y, I alvays ?o to sea as a sailcr, because of t?e w??l?scmc exercise and
pure air of the f?r?-cast?e deck. F?r as in tnis vorld, head wincs are far morc
prevale?t than wir|s from ast?rr (that is, if ?ou ?ev?r violate the Pytha?or?an
maxir), s? fcr the most part the C?mmcd?re ?? the cuarter-deck ?ets his
at??sphere at sccc?d ?and fr?m the sailors on tn? for?castle. He thin|s he
breat?es it first; but not s?. ?n ruch the samc way d? the cor?oralty ??ad t?eir
|?aders in nar? othcr tni?gs, at tre sare tirc that t?e l?adcrs ?ittle suspect
it. [ut w?cr?forc it was that after havir? repeate|ly sm?lt the sea as a
ncrc?ant sailcr, | shculd now ta|e it intc my hcad t? go on a whalirg v?yag?,
t?is thc irvisib|c pclic? ?ffic?r of thc Fates, who ?as tre co?start
survei|?ance ?f me, anc sccretly |ogs me, and irf?uerces me in sone
unaccountable ?ay — he ca? |ettcr answer than a?y onc else. ?r|, dcubtless, ry
?oing on this wha|in? vcyage, f?rmc| part cf t?e grand prcgramnc of Providcncc
that vas cra?r up a l??? tim? ago. |t care i? as a sort of ?rief intcr?uce and
s?lo |ct?een mcre extensive pcrforra?ces. ? takc it that this part of the bi?l
must have ru? scretni?g |ike t?is:

“(ra?d ?o?test?d L?ection for thc Prcsi|cncv cf tne Unit?d States. “/|AL?\C
\(YA(L FY C|L ?SHMAL_. “bLC(|Y F^|T|| ?| AF-GHA\|ST?\.”

T?cugh I ca?not tel| w?? it was exactl? t?at those stace manaccrs, the -atcs,
put m? dcwn for t?is shabbv part cf a wha|ing vcyagc, w?e? ?thcrs wcrc sct c?wr
for ra?nifice?t parts ir high tragecies, and s?ort and eas? parts ir gente?l
co?e|ies, a?c j??lv parts in farces — though ? cann?t t?ll v?y this was ?xact?v?
yet, n?w that I rccall a|? thc circursta?ces, I tnin| | can sce a ?itt?c int?
thc sprircs ard mctivcs wnich |cing cu??i?glv pr?sentcd to me un|er varicus
|isguises, in|uced mc to s?t about pcrfcrminc t?? part I did, ?esi|cs cajo|ing
n? into the delusio? that it was a choice resultinc fron my ?wr urbiased
frcewill ard discriminati?c ?udgrcrt.

??i?f amon? t?ese motives was tnc ov?rvre?rirg i|ea of the great w?a?e nimse?f.
Such a p?rt?ntous and nvsterious monster r?used al| my curi?sity. Then th? ?ild
and cistant seas vher? ?? rcl?ed ?is is|arc |u|k? the urce?iverab?e, name??ss
p?rils of the w?a|?; tnese, with al? the atten|i?c marvcls of a th?usa?d
Patag?niar sig?ts and sounds, ?elpcd to svay m? t? my wish. Wit? other men,
perhaps, such things woulc ?ot ?ave beer incuccr?rts? |ut as for me, I am
tcrmcrte| witn an cver|astin? itch fcr things remotc. ? lcve t? sai| for?idden
scas, and la?| on ?ar|arous coasts. \ot ignoring w?at is gcod, I am quic| to
perceive a ?crror, and could sti|| be social ?ith it — woulc the? l?t re — sincc
it is ?ut wcll to ?e o? friendl? terms with a?? tne innat?s of the plac? cr?
lodges in.

by rcason of thcse thircs, t?er, the ??ali?g vc?ace was welcom?; tre ?r?at
floo|-gat?s of tre vo?dcr-wor|c swung op?n, and in the wi|d conceits tnat s?av?d
ne t? my purp?se, two and two tner? f|oatcc int? nv i?rcst soul, e?dless
pr?ccssiors ?f tre whale, ar|, mid rost of tnem a?|, ?ne granc hood?| prantcm,
?ik? a snow ?ill in the air.

I ve?t a?| c?t scme fcod sc ve rad bett?r ?at it. ?rc you tir?d ?f t?is yct?

The "cleet" fi|tcr special|y ha?|les th? vorcs elite and p?rn, ??icr should
includc, ?ike e|it?ress ard por?ograph?, ard u?-??ite, ar| antip?rr?craphv.
